---
title: Integration Testing with Github Actions and ContainerLab!
author: Hugo Tinoco
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=291
categories:
  - Automation
  - DevOps
---

The last several months, I&#8217;ve had a small pet project of creating a NETCONF plugin for Nornir. If you are not familiar with <a rel="noreferrer noopener" href="https://github.com/nornir-automation/nornir" target="_blank">Nornir</a>, It&#8217;s a Network Automation Framework..much like Ansible. I started this project as a way to learn the ins and outs of Nornir a little bit deeper and contribute back to the community. Fast forward to present time and I&#8217;ve been trying to find a way to do integration testing in my pipelines. The problem? I can&#8217;t do integration testing against live devices (that I do not have) or lab devices for that matter without having an always-on sandbox with publicly reachable addresses. Oh, that&#8217;s a good talking point! Should I just test against the always-on Cisco Sandbox? Well, I have been doing that, locally, but it&#8217;s just not reliable as it&#8217;s not under my control what the status of those devices is.

The goal of this post is to give a high level walk through of how I am going to incorporate <a href="https://containerlab.srlinux.dev/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">ContainerLab</a> as part of my CI with Github Actions using a self-hosted job runner. Lets get started.

The reason for having a self hosted runner is that the environments that are used with Github actions do not provide the ability to run nested virtualization. The particular devices I am using inside of ContainerLab require this (Nokia SROS and Cisco IOSXR). This isn&#8217;t too much of a problem as Github makes it very easy to use your own virtual machine as a job runner. I happen to have an old Dell server running in my home network and I have the resources to keep a self-hosted runner on at all times with plenty of memory to spare.

To learn more about self-hosted runners, checkout the <a rel="noreferrer noopener" href="https://docs.github.com/en/actions/hosting-your-own-runners/about-self-hosted-runners" target="_blank">documentation from Github</a>. We will skip the installation procedure, as it&#8217;s really not that interesting. It&#8217;s basically CURL down some installation bash script and run the script. The script will keep basically be always on and listening for Jobs from Github. The awesome part of this all, is that my Virtual Machine which is now a Github CI runner doesn&#8217;t need a publicly reachable address either. The particular runner I am hosting for this project is at the repository level. This means that none of my other Github projects that are running Github actions have access to the runner and will use the native runners provider by Github.
